[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What if you were a medical
doctor and made a discovery
that could help cure millions
of people with inflammatory
related diseases, like
acute rheumatism, IBS,
Parkinson's disease,
asthma, tuberculosis,
and even some cancers?
And what if, over a
period of 30 years,
you'd had lots of success
with treating people
with this medical discovery?
You'd think that it
would be something
almost everyone,
especially people who
were in charge of keeping
the public healthy,
would be interested in, right?
Because, well, aside from
being the proper thing
to aim for in a modern
civilized society,
it just makes sense, right?
Well, it would stand to reason
that the answer would be yes
to all of the above, right?
Not necessarily.
Our story starts in London
with a conversation on a train.
One man is telling another about
an Indian medical doctor who
is curing thousands of people
with inflammatory related
diseases--
like acute arthritis, allergies,
and even tuberculosis--
with a different
kind of treatment
and has been successfully
doing it so far for 30 years.
Yet, he and his methods remain
largely obscure and unknown
outside of his home
state of Andhra Pradesh
in southern India.
The idea was so intriguing that
after a number of conversations
and emails and Skype calls
between the UK and India,
we decided to set off to India
in the hope of seeing more
for ourselves.
After several hours flying
east, we arrived in a city
on the southeast coast of
India called Visakhapatnam,
where we met Dr. Apparao
Peddapalli, the Indian doctor
responsible for his
famous inflammation
related disease treatments.
Upon arrival at his surgery
in the early afternoon
on a Saturday, we
saw at least 20
to 30 patients queuing
outside and were
told that that was the
normal way of things.
Then we were introduced to one
man who just walked six hours
from his home in the
countryside to get Dr. Apparao's
medicine needed by his father.
Southern India has some of the
poorest and largest communities
in the modern world,
with a very low standard
of living compared
to Western countries.
And most people
work many more hours
and earn far less in a month
than even the lowest paid
hourly worker in the
West would earn in a day.
[SEWING MACHINE WHIRS]
One of the most
sobering realities
is when poor people
fall ill, there
is no government medical
insurance to turn to.
So in such circumstances,
it is the family
who is looked to when a major
health condition is diagnosed.
This is probably why
the life expectancy here
is 64 years as compared
to 78 in the United States
and 81 in the United Kingdom.
>> I have started my career
in the year 1984 as a general
practitioner after getting
my basic degree that is MDBS.
I was in a feeling that
this country like India
needs more general
practitioners, not
the specialist doctors.
So with that convention, I went
to my native place, which is
called Bobbili, in rural India.
This is in the
southeast of India,
and it is rather a
very, very poor place.
This is the place where
I was started my clinic.
This is my house.
That's my clinic.
>> Although India is considered
one of the fastest growing
countries in the
technological age,
there are still many villages
without both electricity
or indoor plumbing, where people
still live and work as they did
200 or 300 years ago.
In some places, it is almost
as if time has stood still.
In this village here,
the majority of people
make their living as farmers or
by chopping and gathering wood
from the nearby forests to sell.
So it is ironic that in
this place, where people
are so steeped in the traditions
of the past and change
comes so slowly,
that a development
in medical treatment that
has the potential of changing
millions of lives
was first discovered.
>> I'm very happy that
I have got my own house.
This is 150-year-old small
house that is not even five feet
width area, in which I
put some tables and chairs
and then started my
practice, that's how.
I didn't have any beds.
I am only a prescribing
doctor doing
injections, small,
small treatments,
attending all the small
needs of the people.
At deliveries times, I
used to go to their house
and do the deliveries like
good olden days practice.
So gradually my popularity
has risen among the poorest
of the poor people.
So I didn't have any kind
of a conventional fee.
In those days, the fee was
around 20 rupees or so.
People used to put one rupee,
half rupee, and two rupees
also into my Dabbah.
And a Dabbah in sense
is called a box.
This, as people call
it, is a charity box.
So like that, I had so
much of an acquaintance
with my patients rather
than not with patients.
They are my soulmates.
So things are going
very gradually.
I have very successful
treating fevers, diarrheas,
and successful in
conducting deliveries.
At the time, people used to
pose me a question-- doctor,
can't you do something
to our joint pains?
I said, well, why not?
When I write ibuprofen or an
aspirin or something like that,
the failure was at my end.
So I went into a
deep introspection.
I thought of, I can't alleviate
these joint pains on a subject,
I have learnt.
So I went into
deep introspection
and starting pursuing
for various things.
So at that time,
except the textbook,
there is no other
area to learn things.
Now one of the commonest ways
to get the medical information
is the medical reps,
medical representatives.
They used to bring the
information from the company
to our doorstep.
So I got what all
the information we
do judiciously, the practice.
So one fine morning one fellow
introduced a medicine which
actually works for allergies.
So then next time, I'm
having a very rich number
of patients, patients that
was not a problem to me.
So obviously, when I give them
this medicine, their allergy,
like skin allergy and
an asthmatic wheeze,
these things starts coming down.
So I was happy,
and they are happy.
Suddenly one fine
morning, one fellow
said, sir, I used to suffer
from so many pains and also
the asthmatic wheeze.
With your medication, I
am happy for my wheeze
as I am for my joint pains.
I am puzzled up.
The very next moment,
another fellow
came with the joint pains.
He used tons and tons
of so many antibiotics,
so many painkillers,
and including steroids.
At the time, his face is
swollen, legs are swollen,
and his condition
is so pathetic.
So since I have the information
that, yeah, that fellow is all
right, I simply say,
why can't I try this?
So I try this medicine.
This is really
miraculous to work.
This fellow is happy.
Within no time, in a
couple of one or two days,
he comes back and
said, doctor, I'm
so happy with your medicine.
So then one by one, joint
pain people used to come,
and I use it to give
the same kind of regime,
what I have given
to this fellow.
Suddenly, my curation
rate is better.
Then the patients very joyfully
call me the "vata pidigu."
It says I'm the thunder
to the arthritis.
Of course, it is only a common
name given by the community.
I was not enjoy
any joy out of it,
but I am keen in observing
all these things.
When one fellow is
suffering from joint pains
along with his post-paralysis
sequel, he came to me and said,
doctor, along with
my joint pains,
the paralysis is also better.
I was confused.
After that, I have
decided that I
have to understand the
basic science behind it.
I have given the message
to the very important
medical specialists
in this country,
and they have responded to me.
After that, I have
realized that I
am meddling with some
important portion
in the field of immunology.
Immunology is not a
developed science yet.
And as a rural
doctor, I don't know
what is meant by immunology.
So I've decided to study it.
For the study, I have sacrificed
my practice, a little practice
I started in '84 and left for
the education after a decade.
So in 1993, I have joined
in MD-microbiology.
Why I took specifically
microbiology
is, microbiology is the science
which contains immunology.
So then offered myself for
another more higher study.
I went to All Indian Institute
for Medical Sciences.
I could get an opportunity
to do immunology there.
There I had all
the modern science
and conducted my
animal experiments.
And in this process,
I could come
to know all these
days I am arresting is
nothing but inflammation.
So the inflammation is the crux.
So I was surprised.
I had good success
that I found out
that the product what I am using
is arresting the inflammation.
Inflammation is the body's
natural defense process.
This is like a
cooking fire, which
is, as long as it is
useful for us to cook,
fire is a very good thing.
And fire suddenly, it flames,
burns the entire house.
But the fire is fire.
So the inflammation is
the protecting fire.
It comes, flares up, arrests
the thing, and protects us.
This is the game
that nature has given
to all the biological species.
So in the inflammation,
there are so many layers.
So finally,
inflammation is always
interlinked with the
process called healing.
Inflammation and healing,
they go hand in hand.
So the inflammation is
due to any reason delayed,
the healing is delayed.
And if healing is delayed,
the illness is delayed.
So at the time, I have
studied further and further
and further and further
and further and further.
One fine morning,
I got the awakening
that this IGE mast
cell mediator pathway
cycle is inbuilt in
the both of the cycles.
So that is the crux.
That histamine cycle, which
is coming as a vicious cycle,
is the crux.
So now the people are
calling this cycle,
as on my name,
Rao's Vicious Cycle.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One of the most interesting
case, in the year 1996,
I saw some people came
to my clinic I'm running
and said, sir, our boy's
in a death condition.
He moved around to
all the hospitals,
including the
government hospital,
where they said that the boy
had Japanese B encephalitis.
So Japanese B encephalitis
is a deadly condition.
At the time, I had seen
four cases in my notice.
Three were expired.
And this boy is also
at the time of death.
They called me, and I
went to their house.
I went to their village
into the deep houses.
I said, there is some
new medicine with me
I will try with this boy.
The rest is your luck.
So I give it, and they
said, the boy, the froth
is coming from his mouth.
The boy is not blinking.
He is having a stare look.
This was the condition.
I said, OK, if the froth
reduces and the boy
is able to blink his eyes,
then give me a message.
At that time, no
telephones, nothing.
Only bicycles.
They came in the
night around 8 o'clock
and said the boy is
blinking his eyes.
They wanted to bring
the boy to my house.
I own a house.
So we put the boy on my long
table, and he's in deep coma.
He's not responding even
to the pain stimuli.
At that time, we had started
the drips and other things just
to maintain the vitals.
And gradually, I
give him a couple
of doses of this molecule.
He was in coma
for about 21 days.
So one fine morning, the boy
could get out from a deep sleep
and sat up.
This is a surprise to me.
Before that, once or
twice, they were asking me
that if the boy's
going to survive.
I said, I don't know.
If the boy survives, what
would be your expectations
to happen with the boy?
I said, usually,
encephalitis means
we lose all the vital
functions of the brain.
But all to my surprise, he
has lost only two fingers,
and he regained
his consciousness.
He is talking and has
grown up to this age.
Now he has become the
father of two children.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> What is equally
as interesting as Dr.
Apparao's cases is the fact
that his work is endorsed
and supported by his
medical colleagues,
all of whom have been trained
in Western biomedicine.
>> This could be a breakthrough.
Probably he'll
have to experiment
this so-called treatment by Dr.
Apparao in many, many patients,
and he has to put this theory
across so many medical forums.
He has to get something
like acceptance
from all these
forums because he's
going to deal with
many number of patients
across all inflammatory
diseases, cancer diseases,
disease, in cancer disease,
in diabetes also.
So in that aspect,
this treatment's
going to be very, very
helpful to so many people.
But still, as I said,
it needs acceptance
from all medical forums.
>> In conventional medicine,
majority of diseases are dealt
independently, and there's no
common initial point in any
of the conventional approach.
But in the Vicious
Cycle, as Dr. Rao stated,
initially all these have
the same start-up process.
So if you're going to stop the
initial process, all of these
can stop.
So no one in
conventional medicine
talks about the initial
results in all of the diseases.
I have seen many
cancer patients dealt
with Dr. Rao who are
advised to have chemotherapy
and radiotherapy.
Any patient who wants to go to
chemotherapy or radiotherapy
will definitely end up
having some complications.
And even though the absolute
lifespan is increased,
it's not increased
because of the side
effects that will come
because of chemotherapy
and radiotherapy.
But if the patients are ready
for the therapy of Dr. Rao,
the outcome is miraculous.
I have seen some breast
cancer patients, liver cancer
patients, and pancreatic cancer
patients who has been treated
by Rao for a couple of years.
And eventually, they
are out of the disease,
and there are no side effects
with this medication treatment.
>> It doesn't have
any side effects.
Only one or two minimal side
effects we have encountered.
Literally, it doesn't
have any side effects.
And that's the reason why we
are giving very comfortably
in each and every place.
We can give it in a clinic.
We are giving it in
the railway station.
They want to get it in the
bus terminal, on the roadside.
Nothing happens because it
is available to the people
because they cannot come here
so much of far off places.
There is a lot of financial
constraint for the patients.
If I'm on the way, I'm
comfortable in delivering
these goods to them.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
This is an
inexpensive treatment.
Generally, most of
the patients can
feel better and cured
for an amount in rupees
equal to about 100
American dollars, which
is equal to 70 British pounds.
So this is sufficient
to manage this show.
The people are
successful with this.
So then we may
extend the course,
for which the funding for
them is very comfortable.
This works about for about
a three-month period.
So in three months, we'll ask
them to put in some money,
even in installments.
We don't take at the time.
We will ask them
to keep that money.
We will ask them to expense
for themselves periodically.
That's all.
>> So based upon this, I think
this treatment can be easily
introduced to any country.
>> Shouldn't we, as a society,
be concerned about curing
illnesses and taking a serious
look at what is being talked
about and offered, especially
as it may provide answers
to the acknowledged and growing
economic problems in health
care?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the current situation,
the big driver is economics
because with rising health
care costs, aging population,
and rising lifestyle illnesses,
we are not going to be able
to afford to give the kind
of medicine we're giving now
to every person.
So I believe in five
years time if one of us
suddenly got chest pain,
ringing for an ambulance,
we might not actually
be lucky enough
to have a blue light ambulance
here in 15 or 20 minutes.
And so already, big
pharma is suffering
because they can't be
guaranteed that anybody
will buy the drugs
that are being created,
the new drugs being created.
Previously, if a company
invested $50 million
in bringing a drug
to market, they
could be pretty confident
that the NHS would pay for it.
Now that is not clear at all.
And I've even seen a very
cynical little insurance
policy called My
Cancer Drugs, where
people are being persuaded to
invest now in a premium in case
they have cancer and in case the
NHS can't pay for their drugs.
So I think that
cost effectiveness
is going to be the key.
And I think that the holistic
health movement, the more we
can prove that simple,
cheap, effective lifestyle
interventions are cutting costs,
the more traction we'll get.
>> So now we know about this
possible medical discovery that
seems to have been working for
the good of patients for 30
years.
And not only is
it affordable, it
can be administered without
fear of side effects.
The next logical step would be
to popularize this discovery,
announce it to the world, put
it into the hands of doctors
and let people come
running to get cured.
Well, that is logical, right?
All the health care
officials, especially
those connected to
governments whose job it
is to make sure the public
stays healthy as possible,
will surely respond
positively, right?
Well, not really.
And that's because the way in
which new medical treatments
are discovered, managed,
and brought to market
is part of the
pharmaceutical business that
has very little to do
with curing people,
but rather more to do
with creating huge profits
for its investors.
So now the issue becomes,
can we or should we
trust an industry that has
shown itself to be consistently
corrupt to help deliver
something that may actually
stop people spending
lots and lots of money
buying their medicines?
So now we have Dr. Apparao with
his novel approach to healing.
How likely would it be for him
to enter into the established
marketplace?
>> Oh, it'd be impossible.
Absolutely impossible.
The business of licensing a
drug requires vast resources,
and it'd be quite impossible
for me, as an individual,
to do that.
So that's out of the question.
The drug companies aren't
interested in curing people.
In fact, the last thing the
drug companies want to do
is to cure people.
What drug companies
want is people
taking symptom suppression
medication for life,
or at least the long-term.
And if that causes other
problems requiring more drugs,
well, that's even better because
that's what's good for profits.
So drug companies do not want
to cure in the short term.
That doesn't make
any money at all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> (SINGING) Money, money.
Money, money.
>> New drugs that are brought
to market are done so at huge
expense by a group of large
pharmaceutical companies
collectively and commonly
referred to as "big pharma."
They control the flow of what
drugs come onto the marketplace
by using their huge financial
and political influence.
This can include the financing
of the research and testing
of the drugs they sell, lobbying
various governmental bodies
to approve their drugs
for sale, financing
the education of
doctors involved
in the dispensing
of their drugs,
marketing to get the
public to buy their drugs.
All of this is no secret
because, for many years now,
lots of experts have been
saying the same thing.
Dr. Marcia Angell,
former editor-in-chief
at the "New England Journal of
Medicine" noted in a lecture
that "drug companies pay for
most continuing education,
which doctors have to get
in order to keep their state
licenses" and that
the reason for this
is simply because "doctors
write the prescriptions
that prescription drugs
require in order to be sold."
>> I've been in NHS general
practice for 20 years.
And it's been increasingly
apparent to me
that the doctors within
the National Health
Service, and indeed within
conventional medicine,
are not addressing the
root causes of disease.
>> So knowing all of this, where
does that leave Dr. Apparao,
who might have discovered
something that could help
to accomplish the job of
really curing certain diseases?
And more importantly,
where does that
leave those patients
with illnesses
in need of a real cure?
Under the current system,
quite simply, out of luck.
And in the meantime, big pharma
is still making billions,
while Dr. Apparao
operates completely
at the other end of
the financial spectrum.
>> So my earnings, my basic
earning, is my salary.
I am working for the government.
I'm a professor in
a medical college.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So whatever the money that
we are incurring on this,
this is sufficient
to maintain our show.
>> Meanwhile, as we tried to
think of a possible solution
and not allow ourselves to
become depressed by this David
versus Goliath scenario,
let's turn to one of the most
interesting of Dr. Apparao's
cases that involved a woman
farmer.
>> In my area, the cigars, the
cigar smoking in the reverse is
a common phenomenon.
Here, the people,
especially women,
also smoke because
it's a very rural area.
So that's called
reverse smoking, which
causes so much of
heat inside the mouth,
and it damages the palate.
But gradually, because of
the chronic irritation,
they will get
cancer hard palate.
So this grows in a
small ulcer, then
it perforates, comes
to cauliflower stage,
and finally, it takes a fellow.
>> Reverse smoking is achieved
by putting the lighted end
of the cigarette or
cigar into the mouth.
This may look like
a stage trick,
but let me assure you it is not.
It is simply a common
and popular way
of smoking in southern India.
>> One lady called Bagarama,
Miss Bagarama has come to me
on fine afternoon with already
a major phase of cauliflower.
She said that she went
to cancer hospitals,
and they said that
they wanted to do
radiation and other things.
Since she was so much
worried about the radiation,
she don't want to
undergo all those things.
And while the
medicines previously
were given were useless
to her, she said,
you use something which
may be useful at least
to relieve my pain.
So that by the time
that she come to me,
the worse thing is her pain.
Because I already am master
to reduce the pain, since I'm
already used to reducing
the pains of all arthritis
people, the same ways she might
have given in a good interest
to relieve her pain.
So she is comfortable
for one week,
not only comfortable, the
irritation has come down.
After that, gradually,
everything has come down.
So after two months of so, there
is no cauliflower structure.
That is healed.
Then they took Bagarama
to a cancer surgeon
and presented this case to him.
He is a renowned cancer
surgeon in our area.
Once in a while, he visits
from the US to India.
He is a pioneer in making
cancer hospital in this place.
He has examined and said
with a very exciting mood
and told to me,
Rao has got cure!
And suddenly I know what
the meaning of healing.
So I was amazed.
This Bagarama woman is alive
somewhere around 15 years.
For the 15 years, the
cancer has not relapsed.
She is here and healthy.
She is doing a
lot of activities.
She came in as a middle-aged
woman, now she is an old woman.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Over the years, Dr. Apparao
has formed support groups that
meet regularly to discuss
both the progress of their own
treatment as well as that
of fellow group members.
>> Some of the patients whom
I treat are also being treated
by Dr. Apparao.
I will send my worst
cases to Dr. Apparao
where I could not get sufficient
satisfactory treatment.
I will send them,
they got cured.
What he's doing is the
scientific approach.
His medicine is
based on science.
It is not speculation.
His medicine is entirely
scientific medicine.
The theory, the evaluation
according to premise he says
is different, but I feel he
is scientifically treating.
>> I'm not an evangelist.
I'm not a guru.
I have the passion
towards healing.
I'm simply a medical man.
I have a belief in my concept.
At the same time, it is working.
And that's the reason why
all this is happening.
We conduct small,
small gatherings
at least once in two months.
And at least once in six months,
we will have a big gathering.
This gives us so much
of moral support.
We are getting a lot of
feedback-- how much dose we
can fix, what are the dicey
areas, the things we are not
supposed to do, what
to stop, what to take.
These things can get very
freely out of these feedbacks.
>> I myself suffered
a lot two years back.
All of a sudden, I had
severe joint pains,
and there was swelling
in all the joints.
And I was suffering a lot, and
I had all types of medicine,
including homeopathic, Ayurveda.
And I have seen one or
two rheumatologists also.
They said this is a
seronegative arthritis,
and you need to get treatment
for a very long time.
We can choose steroids also.
And then I was not getting
relief with any of the drugs.
So one fine day,
one of my colleagues
suggested to see Dr. Apparao.
I could not even walk
for a few days because
of the joint pains and all.
I could not even get up
and go to the bathroom.
So in that state, I went to him.
So he said, I have
a drug which will
cut short the inflammation
process at the beginning stage
itself.
He said, the only
thing is you have
to take three or four shots.
And depending on that,
we'll go ahead, he said.
So I took a chance, and
he gave me the first shot.
The very next day, almost 80% to
90% of my pains have subsided.
I was so impressed.
So I had to take almost six
injections after about one
week.
Then I started thinking
a regular dose of one
to two months.
Later, I stopped because
I was unable to meet him.
And when I come,
he's out of state.
And when he's in,
I'm out of state
because I work 200
kilometers from here.
So that way, I was very
much impressed with him.
So I feel it'll help many of
the patients who are suffering
from arthritis or severe
arthritis or any joint pains
or any inflammatory
disease for that matter
because he's cutting at the
root of preliminary stages
of inflammatory process.
>> One cannot help
but think that Dr.
Apparao's discovery might
have acquired more widespread
interest if instead of being an
Indian doctor working in poor
southern Indian communities,
he was associated with
a prestigious Western medical
establishment or research
institution.
Which then leads to the
question, why have we,
as a society, come to doubt
when an individual rather
than a known company makes
a groundbreaking discovery?
Is it because we're so blinded
by the marketing and sales
efforts of an established
and self-serving industry
that we have become
tricked into plotting
against our own best interests?
Have we become so influenced
by one avenue of discovery
that we rule out others just
because the discoverers don't
look the way we've been
told they should look?
Or is it because the
world of Dr. Apparao
is a place where
certain things are still
done in ways that would astound
Western values, sensibilities,
and expectations?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My goal is to set up
clinics in different countries
and train doctors in my methods
so that many patients can
receive the benefits of my
discovery and treatment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It may surprise you to know
that presently there are over
60,000 Indian doctors working
in the English-speaking Western
world, including the United
States, the United Kingdom,
Australia, and Canada, and
that India is by far the single
largest source of emigre
physicians in the world.
So knowing this, why
couldn't a lone Indian doctor
be the source of a major
medical discovery that
just might change the
world for the better?
Even in this computer high-tech
dominated world, why not?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I do agree that I'm
expecting a kind of resistance.
But I'm not giving anything.
I have given my experiences.
I'm showing my
experiences to you.
These are all the people
who got benefit out
of this concept, that's all.
So this is going
to be evaluated,
and this is the credit given
by the community to me.
Resistance is common.
I am not bothered about that.
Here's what my destiny is.
I am giving my 30 years
of clinical experience
for validation and discussion.
This is my sheer observations
over a long period of 30 years.
I am a doctor.
I am just treating with
the available medicines.
I'm not making and
synthesizing medicines.
I'm not dispensing
in any different way.
So the thing is that I could
use them more properly, more
traditionally, with
more reason and logic.
The key is very simple.
This may be
unlocking more locks.
>> Systems don't like change.
And the reason we call
things an establishment
is because it's established.
It's settled.
It's solid.
And sometimes solidity
can mean rigidity as well.
So it's very hard to
create change quickly
in any large and
established system.
And that's true about
medicine the way
it is about anything else.
If you come up with
a new idea and you
begin to produce
positive results,
if it can't be explained
in the old language,
people are going to
be suspicious of it
because they have a lot
invested in that old system.
Producing change suddenly means
giving up that investment,
saying, oh my goodness,
we were wrong.
There are some classic
examples of this
in the history of medicine.
A doctor named Semmelweis
discovered that it was probably
other doctors who
were carrying germs
from one pregnant
woman to another
and making infections
that caused
the women or their
babies to die.
Now doctors did not
want to hear this.
They didn't want to hear
it before he had evidence,
and they really didn't
want to hear it afterwards.
And so change didn't
happen right away.
That process is repeated
hundreds and hundreds of times.
And it's not a case
of a conspiracy.
It's the case of a
lot of people who
have dedicated their lives
to doing the best they can
under a particular model
being a little reluctant
to suddenly get told,
hey, you were wrong,
you've been doing it
wrong all this time,
your patients have
had ongoing pain
because you didn't do it right.
People feel anxious
and they feel guilty
and they feel
suspicious when they
get told that they were
wrong all this time
and that everything they
were taught was wrong, too.
But of course, you also have
very particular standards
in the field of medicine.
Today, we expect
certain kinds of proof.
And one doctor and
that doctor's patients
may not be able to produce
enough evidence that it can
overturn an established theory.
And I think that's part of
the problem we have here.
Most doctors are
running to stay in place
in terms of medical change.
Just keeping up with the
field is incredibly difficult.
Keeping up with the
field and innovating
and bringing on board things
that haven't been accepted by,
let's say, insurance companies
or your hospital board
of ethics, that's
virtually impossible
for any single doctor to do.
>> We're not saying that
Dr. Apparao's discovery is
the panacea for
all our illnesses,
but then neither is he.
But what he is
saying, however, is
he has come upon something that
offers a different perspective
about inflammatory
illnesses that
affect a large
section of our society
and that his treatment
of these illnesses based
on his theory developed
over a 30-year period
has given him a success
rate and enough credibility
to merit the attention of
impartial medical researchers
who are not under the
direct or indirect influence
of vested pharmaceutical
company interests.
And the best part of
it is that Dr. Apparao
seems anxious to share
what he has learned
with any reputable
research institution that
may be interested in his work.
We can also look at the argument
from another perspective.
In an aging society with
mounting health care costs,
can we afford not
to look seriously
at something that may
cure serious illnesses
in an economical
way, that may offer
long-term economic
and health benefits?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I might have treated more
than 3,000 arthritis patients,
more than some 300
paralysis patients.
And I might have treated
more than 40 cancer patients.
The only inclusion
criteria is that there
must be an inflammation
and which is not responding
to the regular treatments.
That is my category.
But my success rate
is more than 60%.
It is not the drug.
It is not just
give a single shot.
I have not encountered the
single shot cures much.
We may get one or two,
but single shot cures
are very less.
It must be consistent.
We have some regime.
That regime has
to be maintained.
In science, all
these days we are
thinking that diseases
is very divergent.
I probably am the first man who
might have found or observed
or summed up over
a period of time
that all the diseases
have an interlink.
This interlink is
nothing but histamine
and its vicious cycle, what
I call Rao's Vicious Cycle.
This is reverse engineering.
Unknowingly, we have
cured so many patients.
After analyzing them, we are
looking at only one area.
So this area is an interlink.
And after thoroughly,
thoroughly,
thoroughly having the
largest study on it
over a period of more than
one and a half decades,
we have found out some principle
that is the basic principle.
Probably it is going
to be a very important
biological principle.
If it is being, what is it
called, thoroughly studied
by the institutions, if
it gets the limelight,
suddenly we may be
getting an important clue
in curing a huge
number of diseases.
What many people
don't realize is
that the pharmaceutical
business and medical research
are two different things.
The pharmaceutical business
wants to make money,
but the medical research
wants to cure diseases.
>> But what can we do as
individuals to even out these
odds against the Goliath-like
behemoth system that
discourages new avenues
of discovery in medicine?
For one thing, we can use
the power of social media
and contact everyone we know who
might find this program useful
and urge them to contact
Dr. Apparao directly
via his website.
Or they can contact their
political representatives
or even their local
health authorities
to investigate
further into the help
that Dr. Apparao is
offering to sufferers
of inflammatory diseases.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In my experience, I have
seen all of these patients--
patients with cancer, patients
with cirrhosis of liver,
patients with severe
bit of arthritis.
These have all came,
and they're all
recovered, still recovering.
So many success
studies are there.
So what I wanted
to say is that this
should be a kind
of an alternative,
a holistic approach to
the very, very big problem
of anti-human health.
But I wanted to say that the
Rao's Vicious Cycle works.
>> Without any operation,
doctor has treated him without
a knife.
He has just treated
him with a needle.
It's a miracle in my life.
And he has given me, my child,
and my husband a new life.
My parents have given me
first life and health,
and I dedicate this life
and health to this doctor.
He's a great, great doctor.
>> I have sent my
worst cases to Dr.
Apparao where I could not
get sufficient satisfactory
treatment.
I have sent them.
They got cured.
>> If you find any
untreatable disease,
please bring those patients to
him so he can cure everyone.
[APPLAUSE]